---
layout: post
title:  "GSOC 2016 with Netfilter"
date:   2016-08-22 15:12:03 +0200
categories: GSOC2016 Netfilter
---
During this summer I have been working with
[Netfilter](http://netfilter.org/projects/nftables/index.html).
This Open Source Organization is known for **iptables**, which is part of their
packet filtering framework, destined to allow users and organizations to secure
their networks. You can also find part of Netfilter's work in the Linux kernel.

At the moment Netfilter is working on their new project, **nftables**, which will
replace the actual **{ip,ip6,arp,eb}tables** framework. My goal in this project was
to continue **{ip,ip6}tables-translate**'s development. With this tool Netfilter
aims to ease the transition for their users from the previous framework to nftables.
I mainly worked with **iptables-translate**, this tool transforms iptables'
expressions into nft's expressions.

Due to the actual status in the development of nftables some components of
iptables are not implemented yet in nftables. Most of my work was
comprehending a certain feature of iptables and check if nftables had it.
Sometimes I found features that could be "translated" but I also found ones
that couldn't. This involved a lot of communication between my mentor,
Arturo Borrero, and me.

You can check my [contributions](https://git.netfilter.org/iptables/log/?qt=author&q=Roberto+Garc%C3%ADa)
to the iptables repository. Keep in mind that
GSOC related commits start at **2016-06-14**.

The iptables-translate tool is not 100% complete.
[Here](https://wiki.nftables.org/wiki-nftables/index.php/List_of_available_translations_via_iptables-translate_tool)
you can have a look at the available translations.
